CASMINST-5104 DOCS: shandy full system power off/on procedure updates (#2218)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/power_management/Prepare_the_System_for_Power_Off.md

## Prerequisites

An authentication token is required to access the API gateway and to use the `sat` command. See the
"SAT Authentication" section of the HPE Cray EX System Admin Toolkit (SAT) product stream documentation
(`S-8031`) for instructions on how to acquire a SAT authentication token.

## Procedure

1. Obtain the user ID and passwords for system components:

   1. Obtain user ID and passwords for all the system management network switches.

   1. If necessary, obtain the user ID and password for the ClusterStor primary management node. For example, `cls01053n00`.

>    1. If the Slingshot network includes edge switches, obtain the user ID and password for these switches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. If the Slingshot network includes edge switches, then obtain the user ID and password for these switches.
```

1. Use `sat auth` to authenticate to the API gateway within SAT.

>    If SAT has already been authenticated to the API gateway, this step may be skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If SAT has already been authenticated to the API gateway, then this step may be skipped.
```

   See the "SAT Authentication" section in the HPE Cray EX System Admin Toolkit (SAT) product stream documentation (`S-8031`) for instructions on how to acquire a SAT authentication token.

1. Determine which Boot Orchestration Service \(BOS\) templates to use to shut down compute nodes and UANs.

   There will be separate session templates for UANs and computes nodes.

   1. List all the session templates.

>       If it is unclear what session template is in use, proceed to the next substep.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If it is unclear what session template is in use, then proceed to the next substep.
```

      ```bash
      ncn# cray bos sessiontemplate list
      ```

   1. Find the xname with `sat status`.

      ```bash
      ncn# sat status --filter role!=management --filter enabled=true \

>       --fields xname,aliases,role,subrole,"desired config"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               --fields xname,aliases,role,subrole,"desired config"
```

      ```

      Example output:

      ```text
      +----------------+-----------+-------------+---------+--------------------+
      | xname          | Aliases   | Role        | SubRole | Desired Config     |
      +----------------+-----------+-------------+---------+--------------------+
      | x1000c0s0b0n0  | nid001000 | Compute     | None    | cos-config-2.3.101 |
      | x1000c0s0b0n1  | nid001001 | Compute     | None    | cos-config-2.3.101 |
      | x1000c0s0b1n0  | nid001002 | Compute     | None    | cos-config-2.3.101 |
      | x1000c0s0b1n1  | nid001003 | Compute     | None    | cos-config-2.3.101 |
      | x3000c0s23b0n0 | uan01     | Application | UAN     | uan-config-2.4.3   |
      +----------------+-----------+-------------+---------+--------------------+
      ```

   1. Find the `bos_session` value via the Configuration Framework Service (CFS).

      ```bash

>       ncn# cray cfs components describe XNAME | grep bos_session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn# cray cfs components describe XNAME --format toml | grep bos_session
```

      ```

      Example output:

>       ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```toml
```

      bos_session = "e98cdc5d-3f2d-4fc8-a6e4-1d301d37f52f"
      ```

   1. Find the required `templateUuid` value with BOS.

      ```bash

>       ncn# cray bos session describe BOS_SESSION | grep templateName

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn# cray bos session describe BOS_SESSION --format toml | grep templateName
```

      ```

      Example output:

>       ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```toml
```

      templateName = "cos-2.3.101"
      ```

   1. Determine the list of xnames or role groups or HSM groups associated with the desired boot session template.

      ```bash

>       ncn# cray bos sessiontemplate describe SESSION_TEMPLATE_NAME | egrep "node_list|node_roles_groups|node_groups"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn# cray bos sessiontemplate describe SESSION_TEMPLATE_NAME --format toml | egrep "node_list|node_roles_groups|node_groups"
```

      ```

      Example output:

>       ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ```toml
```

      node_roles_groups = [ "Compute",]
      ```

1. Use sat to capture state of the system before the shutdown.

   ```bash
   ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage capture-state
   ```

1. Optional system health checks.

   **Important:** Running the System Diagnostic Utility (SDU) may take 20 to 60 minutes to run so
   start this command in one terminal session and then start another session for the other optional
   system health checks to be run while SDU is in progress.

   1. Use the System Diagnostic Utility (SDU) to capture current state of system before the shutdown.

      ```bash
      ncnm# sdu --scenario triage --start_time '-4 hours' \
               --reason "saving state before powerdown"
      ```

>       ***Important:** If the master node where you attempt to run `sdu` does not have SDU installed or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ***Important:*** If `sdu` is not installed on a particular master node, then it may be installed on a different master node.
```

>       configured, it might be installed on another master node. If it is not installed and configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If it is not installed and configured
```

>       on any master nodes, then see the SDU documentation about how to install the cray-sdu-rda rpm, start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      on any master nodes, then see the SDU documentation about how to install the `cray-sdu-rda` RPM, start
```

>       the cray-sdu-rda serivce, wait for the cray-sdu-rda service to become ready, and configure it using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      the `cray-sdu-rda` serivce, wait for the `cray-sdu-rda` service to become ready, and configure it using
```

>       the `sdu setup` command. See these topics about Install and Configure in the the HPE Cray EX with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      the `sdu setup` command. See the Install and Configure topics in the HPE Cray EX
```

      CSM System Diagnostic Utility (SDU) Installation Guide (`S-8034`).

   1. Capture the state of all nodes.

      ```bash
      ncn# sat status | tee sat.status
      ```

   1. Capture the list of disabled nodes.

      ```bash
      ncn# sat status --filter Enabled=false | tee sat.status.disabled
      ```

   1. Capture the list of nodes that are `off`.

      ```bash
      ncn# sat status --filter State=Off | tee sat.status.off
      ```

>    1. Capture the state of nodes in the workload manager. For example, if the system uses Slurm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Capture the state of nodes in the workload manager.

      For example, if the system uses Slurm:
```

      ```bash
      ncn# ssh uan01 sinfo | tee uan01.sinfo
      ```

   1. Capture the list of down nodes in the workload manager and the reason.

      ```bash
      ncn# ssh nid000001-nmn sinfo --list-reasons | tee sinfo.reasons
      ```

   1. Check Ceph status.

      ```bash
      ncn# ceph -s | tee ceph.status
      ```

   1. Check Kubernetes pod status for all pods.

      ```bash

>       ncn# kubectl get pods -o wide -A | tee k8s.pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn-mw# kubectl get pods -o wide -A | tee k8s.pods
```

      ```

      Additional Kubernetes status check examples:

      ```bash

>       ncn# kubectl get pods -o wide -A | egrep  "CrashLoopBackOff" | tee k8s.pods.CLBO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn-mw# kubectl get pods -o wide -A | egrep  "CrashLoopBackOff" | tee k8s.pods.CLBO
```

>       ncn# kubectl get pods -o wide -A | egrep  "ContainerCreating" | tee k8s.pods.CC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn-mw# kubectl get pods -o wide -A | egrep  "ContainerCreating" | tee k8s.pods.CC
```

>       ncn# kubectl get pods -o wide -A | egrep -v "Run|Completed" | tee k8s.pods.errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn-mw# kubectl get pods -o wide -A | egrep -v "Run|Completed" | tee k8s.pods.errors
```

      ```

   1. Check HSN status.

      Run `fmn_status` in the `slingshot-fabric-manager` pod and save the output to a file:

      ```bash

>       ncn# kubectl exec -it -n services $(kubectl get pods \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn-mw# kubectl exec -it -n services $(kubectl get pods \
```

>       -l app.kubernetes.io/name=slingshot-fabric-manager -n services | tail -1 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  -l app.kubernetes.io/name=slingshot-fabric-manager -n services | tail -1 \
```

>       | cut -f1 -d" ") -c slingshot-fabric-manager -- fmn_status --details \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  | cut -f1 -d" ") -c slingshot-fabric-manager -- fmn_status --details \
```

>       | tee fabric.status.details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  | tee fabric.status.details
```

      ```

   1. Check management switches to verify they are reachable.

      > *Note:* The switch host names depend on the system configuration.

      1. Look in `/etc/hosts` for the management network switches on this system. The names of
      all spine switches, leaf switches, leaf BMC switches, and CDU switches need to be used in
      the next step.

>       ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ```bash
```

>       ncn# grep sw- /etc/hosts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ncn# grep sw- /etc/hosts
```

>       10.254.0.2      sw-spine-001

Reviewer: ````suggestion
         ```

         Example output:

         ```text
         10.254.0.2      sw-spine-001
````

>       10.254.0.3      sw-spine-002

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         10.254.0.3      sw-spine-002
```

>       10.254.0.4      sw-leaf-bmc-001

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         10.254.0.4      sw-leaf-bmc-001
```

>       10.254.0.5      sw-leaf-bmc-002

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         10.254.0.5      sw-leaf-bmc-002
```

>       10.100.0.2      sw-cdu-001

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         10.100.0.2      sw-cdu-001
```

>       10.100.0.3      sw-cdu-002

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         10.100.0.3      sw-cdu-002
```

>       ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ```
```

      1. Ping all switches using the proper list of hostnames in the index of the for loop.

>       ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ```bash
```

>       ncn# for switch in sw-leaf-00{1,2} sw-leaf-bmc-00{1-2} sw-spine-00{1,2} sw-cdu-00{1,2}l; do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ncn# for switch in sw-leaf-00{1,2} sw-leaf-bmc-00{1-2} sw-spine-00{1,2} sw-cdu-00{1,2}l; do
```

>               while true; do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                 while true; do
```

                   ping -c 1 $switch > /dev/null && break

>                    echo "switch $switch is not yet up"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                      echo "switch $switch is not yet up"
```

>                    sleep 5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                      sleep 5
```

>                done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  done
```

>                echo "switch $switch is up"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  echo "switch $switch is up"
```

>            done | tee switches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              done | tee switches
```

>       ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ```
```

   1. Check Lustre server health.

       ```bash
       ncn# ssh admin@cls01234n00.us.cray.com
       admin@cls01234n00# cscli csinfo
       admin@cls01234n00# cscli show_nodes
       admin@cls01234n00# cscli fs_info
       ```

   1. From a node which has the Lustre file system mounted.

       ```bash
       uan01# lfs check servers
       uan01# lfs df
       ```

1. Check for running sessions.

   ```bash
   ncn# sat bootsys shutdown --stage session-checks | tee sat.session-checks
   ```

   Example output:

   ```text
   Checking for active BOS sessions.
   Found no active BOS sessions.
   Checking for active CFS sessions.
   Found no active CFS sessions.
   Checking for active CRUS upgrades.
   Found no active CRUS upgrades.
   Checking for active FAS actions.
   Found no active FAS actions.
   Checking for active NMD dumps.
   Found no active NMD dumps.
   Checking for active SDU sessions.
   Found no active SDU sessions.
   No active sessions exist. It is safe to proceed with the shutdown procedure.
   ```

>    If active sessions are running, either wait for them to complete or cancel the session. See the following step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If active sessions are running, then either wait for them to complete or cancel the session. See the following step.
```

1. Cancel the running BOS sessions.

   1. Identify the BOS Sessions and associated BOA Kubernetes jobs to delete.

>       Determine which BOS session(s) to cancel. To cancel a BOS session, kill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Determine which BOS sessions to cancel. To cancel a BOS session, kill
```

      ```

      Any job with a `0/1` `COMPLETIONS` column is still running and is a candidate to be forcibly deleted.
      The BOA Job ID appears in the NAME column.

   1. Clean up prior to BOA job deletion.

      The BOA pod mounts a ConfigMap under the name `boot-session` at the directory `/mnt/boot_session` inside the pod. This ConfigMap has a random UUID name like `e0543eb5-3445-4ee0-93ec-c53e3d1832ce`.
      Prior to deleting a BOA job, delete its ConfigMap.
      Find the BOA job's ConfigMap with the following command:

      ```bash
      ncn# kubectl -n services describe job <BOA Job ID> |grep ConfigMap -A 1 -B 1
      ```

      Example:

      ```bash
      ncn# kubectl -n services describe job boa-0216d2d9-b2bc-41b0-960d-165d2af7a742 |grep ConfigMap -A 1 -B 1
         boot-session:
          Type:      ConfigMap (a volume populated by a ConfigMap)
          Name:      e0543eb5-3445-4ee0-93ec-c53e3d1832ce    <<< ConfigMap name. Delete this one.
      --
         ca-pubkey:
          Type:      ConfigMap (a volume populated by a ConfigMap)
          Name:      cray-configmap-ca-public-key
      ```

>       Delete the ConfigMap associated with the boot-session, not the ca-pubkey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Delete the ConfigMap associated with the `boot-session`, not the `ca-pubkey`.
```

      To delete the ConfigMap:

      ```bash

>       ncn# kubectl -n services delete cm <ConfigMap name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ncn-mw# kubectl -n services delete cm <ConfigMap name>
```
